so recording hi everyone welcome to the
2019 dynamic baton capabilities working
group meeting started we started
recording please put your names on the
attendee lists if you haven't already
and before we start the round of updates
I'm going to there's a proposal for a
new format that I would like to rehearse
today so it's issue 58 on the dynamic
data and capabilities working group repo
there's a link on the crib path and also
proposal for turning this starting to be
crowded meetings to weekly instead of
bi-weekly of fortnightly so from
fortnightly to weekly that's a proposal
any comments on these two proposals
angry I just think that's a nice so if
you have anything to say we're going to
try to rehearse this this one today you
can interrupt or chime in on the github
issue please so that's that's it for
meta stuff oh also is there someone that
could take notes for the second part of
the meeting for the discussion part
any volunteer I'm still writing my notes
so I can really help right now but it's
just for the second part you say okay
thank you so that if you don't haven't
read the proposal for the new format
it's the first half will be updates
quick updates so we have around let's
see three six eight eight people eight
divided by is remaining time which is 25
so the five minutes divided by eight
will be around three minutes two each
for their updates and I asked with keep
your updates to the things that you are
dependent on so you're stuck on
something or you want some help or you
want some input feedback please focus on
that and please keep it's limited to the
three minutes so with that we don't over
run into the second half of the of the
meeting nice so let's start in the order
of the attendee list I haven't put my
name here yet I'm the worst attendee all
right so starting with Jim you want to
give your update Jim sure so I don't
know if here anybody's had an IRC
channel but over the I took the
advantage of the fact that we had
through holiday time to do some more
sort of unstructured sort of
experimentation and trying to figure out
how to make sort of small sort of sketch
style like small sketches in terms of
like really small how small can we make
a peer base program and I plan around a
bit with this AK State Library which is
a a library for coding up finite state
machines and I use this library view
some class projects called Diffie which
is written by math and Tosh which lets
you make like really small react style
caught terminal apps so I paired those
together and did some sort of multi
process node stuff
and if you took the IRC Channel I could
even Bravo at this time reading some
processes together yeah you can you can
perhaps put a demo on the schedule you
want to demo that live okay at this time
it only takes a minute it's very nice
and very small can take in
self-contained which is what I was going
for so I'm pretty happy with being able
to simulate small scenarios in very very
few lines of code so so that was the
main thing I I coated or the over the
break and then I also said last week I
sat in on a few other working groups so
I sat in on the browser's working group
they talked a bit about what I did in
Tokyo went met with Google there I was
doing some stuff with the web packaged
thing that Google's been working on for
Google Chrome so that was sort of neat
and then I sat in on the community
working group meeting meeting yeah and
just sort of expiring on what they're
doing so this week I there's there's
some peer pad maintenance I need to do
and we also we should also talk about
like are we going to rename pure base
there was an issue where the other guy
who has the project pure base he doesn't
want to give up the name so we should
that sort of impacts what we're gonna do
for our landing pages and what are we
going to call this thing and I think I'm
going to sort of shift into looking at
the goals for next quarter is we want to
figure out tutorials and things so
that's what my upcoming plan is also
thank you that's very cool
so I wanted to jump on to satis or
Hendrick Rouge
sorry I was muted so anyway going on to
my concluded step tasks so I've finished
helping business centers with the
changes required to the build process of
this gasified so that we could publish
the accession on both Chrome and Firefox
that was finished infinitely publish on
Firefox we can't really do it right now
because we need a privacy policy so we
reached out the legal team but because
they are sort of overwhelms they they
haven't respond to us yet so we kind of
box on on Firefox we all try to ping
them so soon so that perhaps we can we
can get a privacy policy earlier also
I've started contributing to a professor
Clark so we had the meeting with a
professor of developers and also better
Teixeira was was with me so the the
conversation is about versamark and a
professor and a single similarities of
the projects projects and half code we
converge to a solution and we decided to
use ipfs law but that requires some
changes improvements so we listed those
improvements and created issues there
and started tackle tackle those issues
some of them were made by the developers
of Professor Park the main developers
and some others were made by me at the
moment I've as I have a full request
that is in review which brings on IPL
this IPL the support of it as well and I
will create another one soon about the
time outs with of timeouts or add
timeouts to read and write operations on
the pressure slot because at the moment
if your reading is laggy and it's unable
to resolve it will be there forever so
so yeah I've been consuming the path to
ipfs vlog and also I've created the
initial draft of that into the
background
I agree
Martin so I've put the content itself on
a gist but if you if you if you guys
want me to put on a Google document so
that it's easier for us to collaborate I
can do so it's very easy to actually
transform it so yeah I'm waiting for
feedback on on that I just posted a
comment on the PMI DM repo with a link
to the to the to the market on so after
this is meeting or whenever you have
sometimes with we ditch and and give me
feedback so yeah next steps I will be
still working on the breakdown you know
based on on your feedback I will be
iterating on the breakdown and proving
proving it and also we need to assign
people to die level points or finals in
the document because I've made a break a
complete breakdown of what I feel can be
made autonomously and in parallel so we
can assign people to the different parts
and prove an improved add or reduce the
time to have a concept so if anyone is
interested in contributing to the
projects please let me know either in
the in the issue or even you can
manifest your interest in the gist or
even the Google Documents will document
if if I you know if I will put you okay
just you know but put a comment there
saying I want to do that and I will
assign that to you and I think that's it
awesome thank you
next up is Dirk hey everyone happy new
year so basically I've been working in
general on trying to make discovery
faster and as I've been working on that
I found a lot of stuff in underlying p2p
libraries and floods I've been in switch
and WebSockets are where I found that we
often use Pauline instead of responding
to events and at each level of the stack
as we go up that polling kind of builds
on itself so it ends up making things
very slow so I
basically been doing a lot of work on
the underlying layers when once I'm
finished with that and then I'm probably
going to take a look at some of the
connection management stuff within peer
base and just continue trying to sort of
clean that up make sure it's behaves
correctly on startup and shutdown and so
on
thank you I did Europe yeah so I did a
few like a multi writer I can ask
related stuff trying to get I switched
over from using Carter buffs to go IPL
DC board so that we're sort of it's a
little easier to work with when we start
bringing the rest of the graph
structures so I'm not replicating work
and put together some like content
resolvers like things that you can use
on top of the graph I left the graph
layer set set CR DT is network and sort
of emulating single writer IP NS but
with conflicts all right so it's over
right but if you have two things that
overwrite at the same time then you get
a conflict I'm starting to list up the
peer based concepts and putting together
a little bit about Message Queuing just
so I can get thoughts out to people and
get feedback from them and then I can
get to that later I'd also like to start
working on putting together something
for organization over public channels
like what you guys are doing with the
rest of the peer based stuff and I guess
at least having some basic
implementation of that ego is nice
because then we can when we start
building this stuff back taking some of
the peer base stuff and living in it to
go also I'll be there so I'll probably
start pumping yet in a little and run
stuff by at direct to make sure I'm
doing it the better way you haven't he's
seen it bingum the wrong way and I'm
gonna be out for I'm gonna be out
between part of next week in the
following week so just like a heads up
about that and there's gonna be Justin
Carmack from dr. who I met with last
month and his works with docker and you
know the noise framework will probably
be crashing next our next meeting
I won't be there so just let need it
letting you know
nice I read all about noise framework
that's cool
nice thank you
I guess I'm next so last three weeks I
yeah i created for next year based life
specs for a day ended so that's all I
did
didn't on that regard what not for them
but for for everyone but I didn't is
taking the lead on on on that specs as
you as you saw so I did a dependency a
bit storm on pubis and also did
something that was approached last on
last night's meeting by Jim which is
Delta batch batching the deltas for
quicker updates and I managed to do that
in a way that doesn't break that doesn't
break the our GAC rdt and because Delta
batches our deltas are sometimes
dependent on previous history and and so
I with that in place I created some more
tests and I had managed to bring the
concurrency level of the n2 and load
tests to eight peers which I wasn't able
to do before so I'm very curious of
trying out pure pod again the dev branch
of pure pod again against is this
current state of master of pure base
next is again out speed PI try to speed
up the tests for for peer base would
protect pure IDs because I guess we
spend like 80% of the time creating pure
IDs on the tail no no I wouldn't say
eighty percent of the time and a lot of
time and also I want to dig into the
versatile or EFS log realm and try and
create a chat up and see what what that
where that leads me and see how we could
integrate some of this work on operation
based stuff for history
causal history into peer base that's
something I forgot here which is pure
base renaming will be like a poll of
name alternatives for peer bags already
have a few and then I'm also going to
dive a bit into hopefully a bit into
gear base connection management so
trying to in tandem with with with dirt
working on connection management that's
been I think they're there there could
be some improvements there that already
been a lot of improvements there on
connection management and we have we
have to have better insights on which
connections we're holding because we
have like stats by ipfs or levy to piece
stats and we have States stats on on
peer base we have to make sure the stats
on pure base are accurate and that the
connection count is actually accurate
and and that's that's where I'm going to
start with and so that we can speed up
collaborations where for a large number
of peers and that's for me
under Sosa okay guys so I've concluded
the proposal for the draft regarding
sitemap for IBM we try to define the
priorities regarding the user journeys
and the multiple pages today I was
helping Sara Zarr Widow chased for the
idea breakdown and currently in progress
there are the regarding airbase the
collaboration lifecycle UI and UX
guidelines which were was prepared with
Marco and Azure as well it was already
about the two so he talked if you want
to take a look I started yesterday the
new concept art a new approach for the
IDM as well and now I'm following
federal federal sentence with the
animations and an implementation
regarding discussing file
I don't have anything but for now I was
on vacations with
no leaders in this week so and the next
steps will be continuing with the
approaches and the concepts for for that
IDM regarding the user user interface of
course it's almost it awesome thank you
Marco are you there yeah hello hi guys
I joined mid meeting okay let me just
organize my windows ok so I was on also
on vacation some of the days during the
holidays so concluded the breakdown of
the peer based plan mainly strategic
product management activities and
outbound activities and which which
translated into 2019 OPRS now in
progress while we're starting the the
poro protocol chapter and that's that's
some discussion that's that's starting
which might be handy for for the DDC
where I'm currently working on the
collaboration lifecycle drafts that's
proving to be well a lot more work than
then then we probably expected initially
the current status is on that to link
there on the quick pad you can have a
look there are the more we think about
it more questions come up and of course
the the the big win here will be
simplifying it because it's always easy
to just add more stuff but the more
detail we put into it the more
complicated it becomes for both for the
user for the developer and for the
designer so the devil is really in the
details here so we need to find a very
simple solution I need to have a
discussion with Salazar now because
there are certain aspects of the
technology that I need to clarify with
him just to make sure we're in the right
direction after I have this this
discussion with with Andre which I will
have tomorrow I would like to schedule a
meeting
with with you Pedro and I want to make a
note this is important for for the whole
group some of the things that we are
right now considering have implications
on on both on the developer experience
so we're talking potentially changing ap
ice we're change potentially talking
about how we approach the community and
this is following on the on the meeting
that we had with Michael Ezreal and and
and Jim was there as well my personal
view is that if we want to stick we want
we need to be designing these for for a
more average developer or even a more
inish a new developer if it's simple
enough for them it should be simple for
for the more more best people so we need
to have that discussion because I mean
to see if there's buying in changing all
these things because some of these are
not compatible with what we have
currently then I'm starting the
discussing the new iteration on IBM UX
and UI so have had a couple discussions
with with both Andres yesterday and
today right now I don't have anything
anything blocks
I moved my my task of putting discusses
fire on Firefox to to Pedro so he's
taking care of that now next I need to
to finally do the events that peach I
didn't have enough time so far I'm
hoping that today I can get a good
advanced and and send that then I need
to define a more specific plan for peer
base specifically resources and
milestones this is something that I will
be sharing with you Pedro first to make
sure we're on the same page and finally
hopefully I'm we should get approval for
both the peer based plan and they vent
up during the next couple of weeks so
that we can get going with the whole
year that's it thank you alright
just on a quick note next week I'll be
in Porto on Liberty week and also in
this gist
for the for the collaboration lifecycle
I think then at least at the Institute
should take a look at that because
there's the there are some proposals for
changing the names of things or what is
so starting with something a
collaboration or joining or at all those
verbs that we we should get a consensus
on I believe sorry can I just interrupt
I think I want to put my name on the
edge attendees list so I think we are
missing my updates oh yeah sure
Marco Peter Miguel no I'm not yeah I
think you are next
yeah okay go ahead okay so if we came to
the introduction for those who don't
know me my name is also bitter but you
can call me the other one whatever you
want it's up to you so my work is mostly
related to UI animations of the
specified and I think that let me just
look for my place here okay so what is
concluded is I finished I finish it some
animations I can name them if you want
but replying can still have now fading
just to be smooth and what I will do
next
it's also related with UI emotions I can
also name name them but I think it's not
necessary but the only thing I'm Lucknow
it's what Andre always old told about
that is Firefox publishing so we are
waiting for the legal team to have a
response and and that's what I have
blocked for now so I think that's it
cool thank you thank for that so we we
kind of I think if there was no one else
that wants to give their update I think
we finished
right before the scheduled time which is
awesome thank you for the summarizing of
all your efforts in these last three
weeks so next in in the agenda is
something very quick I would like to
point out I've seen that you have made a
custom some of you have made a custom of
joining other working group meetings
namely Yui and browsers and I know that
that I didn't as also joins some girl
related working groups and I would like
to encourage that there's also some
dependency on infrastructure for
instance on my parts and there also some
Co some Co work that we're going to
start to do with the GUI and and web
browsers working groups so I would
encourage everyone to participate in
these meetings if you have something
that we would like to ask from them or
just just lurking and seeing what what
they're they're up to and and that's
that's that's not a job of only the
captain of the working group to transmit
the dependencies I think we should this
cross-pollination since the 2019
milestones are there there's a big
milestone for a DFS whole ipfs group
that relates to dynamic pattern working
group I think we there is there is the
need for for this cross and cross work
cross-pollination just just and yeah I
think we have demo scheduled you want to
take a legion okay understood this one
should be really quick
see that yep okay so here's my code so
I've created a project called his pure
basic state playground so there's only
two files in it
and so my idea is to instead of doing a
web view I just do a terminal based UI
and see if I can get the amount of code
really reduced so so there's a there's a
master controlling process in a child
process and what the master controlling
process does is it starts at two
separate child processes and they talk
to each other it also starts a
rendez-vous process so I'll give you the
demo so this is it's it's a keyboard
driven and the keyboard is just a
spacebar and it drives it to the
different states so I'm starting in the
initial state here I hit space you can
see it says move to the rendezvous
started state and you can see there's
some logging and capturing so what it
did here was a hit spacebar they used
ojs to start a sub process which just
starts a rendezvous service in there if
I move to the next state here
it started a on PA
they created a sub process which is
running a a pure pure base based app
just this well here is just a simple our
GA is just like a mini version of your
pad I've just created the collaboration
haven't done anything yet so if I move
to the next state and I just hit
spacebar again you can see pure being is
state starting the UI on this could be a
little bit easier to explain but so I
now have two sub processes running and
they're both connected to the same
collaboration so if I move to the next
state in the in the simulation it just
typed in three letters and you can see
this one is just listening to it just it
synced there and the final state is like
this disappear just type three letters
and you can see they synchronized and
that's basically it
so this this code I want to get to these
examples simpler but this is sort of the
controlling process and then this is the
child process and most of it's like
boilerplate I'm using this library
called X state which is a sort of a way
to declaratively describe a state
machine in json maybe I'll throw up the
webpage so it's yeah they have a I was
attracted text they have a nice bunch of
documentation and the author has been
quite active going to conferences and
promoting it and it's all written in
typescript so seems pretty solid in
terms of the the technology behind it so
it was good I've my initial impression
of it was it works really well for it
too simple state machines
it's the reason to use this one instead
of just writing up your own state
machine which would just be a few lines
of JavaScript is it has all this support
for doing sort of hierarchical state
machines and but at this there's sort of
like different ways to do it so I was
playing around with this ability to have
like parallel States state machines they
have like a master state machine then
you can embed for each worker or each
yeah sure I guess a child I could do the
separate state machine for each of them
and then I should have embedded them
but there's they also support other ways
of doing it where you can sort of
compose state machines together using
two actor model and you're sending
events between things so because things
in a subprocess i sort of had to do a
little bit of that anyway so this the
the way it's working in this particular
sketch is a little bit more convoluted
than how I would have preferred to do it
so it's my first time actually using the
library so I think I might try to do
something similar and use the same
library but do it in a different way so
that's my that's my main learning from
it but III like I like it I like it's
not a lot of code like it see it's easy
to go in here and you can see states in
like there's a new state I create pure
base into the starting state I call app
start here then mister started state and
then I create the collaboration so
there's a lot of boilerplate but the
actual code is really really simple and
then here's the part where I like where
it types so there's not a you know apart
from all the boilerplate there's not
much code there so that's that's it I
can take any questions that's suffering
yeah so go go ahead well Heather I was
wondering if it uh this tech state if it
creates those diagrams for you or if
they're just kind of like demonstrative
yeah they have a let's see where is it
it's on the github page I think it's
done that page you understand okay they
do you have you can there's a easily
visualizer so like here's one you can
click on them and it goes to different
states fairly small so you can click and
then you can add another state in here
just interactively
and I'll make that blue it goes from red
to leave update so this is sort of nice
so you could do sort of I think you want
to keep your like individual state
machines quite simple but then you could
sort of view the hierarchy I don't know
how the visualizer would work with the
sort of actor model where there's
different events coming back for it but
potentially I could create like in my
little example app cradle a web server
and then load this thing into it and
then you can sort of visually see the
states so that might be really
interesting for some things what I'm
sort of really interested in the state
machines because we could use it to sort
of hook into the plumbing and especially
for things like connection management
like set up very specific simulations
and not a lot of code like two files and
like make sort of examples of you know
this this is how the state the
connection management worked before this
changed and then this is how it works
after this change we could even just you
could make two separate workers I could
use different versions of peer base very
purpose or whatever we call it next and
I know it seems like be pretty good it
would be pretty because the state
machines they would very easily be like
one-step conversion over into a unit
test as well so what I was going to ask
about about the usage of or something
like this it's your article I think it
could easily be used to represent
internal state or for connections as you
proposed the the state transitions or
the state management is your article in
it in that sense
there is there is a stop sketching a
connection management state diagram
which is very convoluted I may try to
represent it using something like like
this and also for as you are for demos
that that's the second one and for for
tests so here is very interesting so in
terms of the the typical finite state
machines the state machine libraries
this one what's the main difference
between those those those typical ones
that we use some in some places on a PFS
and and this one so I see that for one
this one is our hierarchical right
mm-hmm
yeah I just I was attracted by the the
documentation like yeah it's there's a I
believe there's some books and things
that I didn't read the book obviously
but that this is based on so there's a
bit of a background on a bit of a
community built around so there's out
there's an XML implementation I think
that goes along with this book so this
is sort of like a follow-on
implementation done in JavaScript so the
author here is and isn't inventing this
from scratch so there's already a bit of
a community around this he's trying to
make this compatible with this XML based
one well that said that that meat tells
me that this particular state machine
implementation is a little bit on the
heavy side so it's not that much javis
it's not that much typescript but you
know in terms of like a state machine
can just be a few lines of JavaScript so
mm-hmm
so I think it's it's good for these
types of little experiments I'm doing
where I'm not we don't care about bundle
size for very anything like that I'd be
hesitant to build this into our core
libraries unless he gave us like some
real benefits
I think also in school is cool for for
demos and using that for command line
like you hooked that into defeat right
that would be that that gives a good a
good demo like you don't have to build a
you want yeah yeah I could talk a bit
about defeat if it really cost soda fee
is by McIntosh it's a terrible name
because it has nothing to do with this
than the fact he's basically tried to
make react for making terminal apps and
here's the webpage for it and but it's
really really simple to use it so see in
the code here
it's basically react for the console
except I can't even find where the you
guys oh yeah here this so so this is my
this is my whole UI here you know it's
basically just rendering that in a sort
of declaratively
and it's just like react it will only
update the characters it's like a
virtual Dom for your terminal so it's
really nice because you just change your
state and then the UI updates
automatically so it's sort of genius for
this sort of thing so cool okay um
that's I should probably start by any
questions for for Jim
or more questions cool
there's anything there's not anything
else on on the on the agenda is there
anything any questions questions is
there any thing you would like to ask
anyone about yeah yeah I would like to
ask if if I should put the identity
breakdown in the Google Documents
because I think it will be better for us
to contribute there and give feedback
there instead of using a gist yes you
know people can't really add it's easily
the stuff there and so on yeah I was
going to propose that that offline but
yeah I think Google Doc is better
because you cannot say which which yeah
making the comments are are just just a
list right
can you can you predator assuming the
list of emails of everyone on the
working group so I can give permission
any permission yes sure sure yeah of
course and you can also yeah Dirk sorry
I've got a question we go ahead
no no no hold on okay I know I was just
wondering pedra if you could talk a
little bit about kind of like what the
goals are for q1 and kind of where you
see PA so or whatever it's gonna be
called going in the next quarter
okay so good question so there's there's
the this road map I'm going to place the
well petals share the screen even that's
a good question okay so sharing
I see right let's go yeah cool
so there's a 5/1 map has the pull
requests for the working groups okay so
this is like long-term whole year holy
year road map and you can click the
preview and and there are this is the
proposal so this is a pull request with
the the markdown document for all the
milestones for the for this year and
drilling down for this quarter which was
which what you were asking so it's team
management pool / / quest 802 which is
also public I guess I can there's a
synchronous perspective and so there's
the open planning thread the open
planning thread the temporary working
dog was here and now and on this link
but now I have translated this into this
bunch of changes so I've got rated the
proposal for the q1 okay ours into this
okay R / DD CMD file on this pull
request so you can take a look at that
and comment anyone can do that or even
propose a pull request on on this branch
and so so I can kind of drill down the
some of some of them so this is you're
asking about peopIe so P by is attracted
and welcoming new developers is our peer
bias or whatever it's going to be called
it has to do with developer adoption of
of pupils and be able to create dynamic
apps web apps on on top of on top of it
so it entails having your website have a
good documentation starting to build the
specification and all the things around
the communication strategy also about
education so Jim is going to delete that
part integrating that into the community
working group or what ifs which is was
responsible for just launching proto
school website which now has a portal by
his chapter and other chapters around
around the world so I encourage you to
check that and also have so user
experience guidelines there's a an
effort going on on on that we've already
started on the collaboration lifecycle
think identity solution so the IDM is
going to be a big big thing a big drive
on this first quarter led by Andre crush
and and some people on the Moxie team
also also
reference reference implementation where
for for the specify and specify I want
is going to be further improved and and
developed throughout this this quarter
and also to work with a partner we're
already started working with with some
companies that that's or some projects
and that will require that have some
objects share some of the common goals
and so to work with them and support
each other is a goal for this quarter
also that's mostly and like in a quick
gist the things that we have planned for
for this quarter
so one of the questions I was wondering
about is some I know you guys are
talking to a couple of different
companies like textile and so on mmm-hmm
I'm not sure like how much is public but
are you able to talk about any
collaborations that might be happening
that yeah we started already started
working with yeah it's totally public we
textile they're very public about their
their their endeavors and we were out on
the face now we're like starting to see
what what each other had is doing on
different areas and how we could perhaps
be inspired by each other's works work
also trying to know where we can help
in this particular case textile where we
can help with their biggest pain points
but right now to be frank we're just on
the face of understanding their their
current state how well their their work
and how they how they do things so
basically there's there's some parallels
to what we've been doing so far but
they're further down the road on some
other aspects like identity for instance
or state replication or persistence for
instance is one of them work you recover
recovery data recovery and and it's it's
mostly gathering knowledge right now
and it's there is there's it's totally
public and there is and we plan to make
the work more more public on the near
future and increasingly start
cooperating with with them furthermore
there's in terms of the textile what
they're doing the textile project and
what they're doing they're more on the
mobile side and the user go-go and
implementation of ipfs mobile going
mutational ipfs well it's a PFS compiled
in mobile go but they and we do mostly
javascript things but nothing there
there's a in terms of specification and
the effort that Adam is going to start I
start doing right now there are some
things to to be learned from from them
then you want to add something to that
yeah I mean at least my plan is to try
and get like a rough idea of what we
have and where our thinking is and then
go out and start talking and be like
okay so what are the things where you
guys already have some of this and you
have other things that you know you
think worked the way you did it or
didn't work the way you did it or would
be willing to replace with something we
built if we did build it so I think just
first is taking an internal accounting
and then and then going out and figuring
out what's out there there's a bunch of
people to talk to and just sort of
looking for more the whole process is
this point is just exploration so yeah
anybody knows anybody just you know send
them our way our Cody ethic is also
looking into the stuff as part of the
collaborations working group so at this
point just trying to learn more um
because you know like textile has their
cafes and stuff and they do sort of
their own take on how persistence works
or messaging works when you're offline
and that's
partially just because they needed to
get something off the ground and
figuring out what part of that is
optimal versus what part of that is
necessary is is the other is the next
thing to do
speaking of way
okay I don't know if you were listening
dark was asking about collaborations and
what were plans were for this quarter
I were talking a bit about textile and
then was was talking I believed you you
is there anything else you want to add
yeah sorry so I'm trying to load up the
pure pads that I had made those notes in
which hopefully will happen mm-hmm okay
I was having some trouble with that
without fear pad yeah it seems to not be
like even loading the page itself for me
mm-hmm okay anyway so I guess the the
most immediately relevant updates is
that right before the holiday break we
ended up having I call people or whereas
with answers from and Peter it was on
there and I think that's the only person
or I and unfortunately the outcome of
that was not super promising basically
there's still a lot of skepticism from
their side that our tech is one way to
be used into will be a net advantage for
them I'm trying to recover a pure pad
that has all the notes from that so I'll
send that to the group so I think that
and the shirt takeaway is that one we
definitely need to improve performance
instability significantly before that
conversation can really happen internist
and two is that there's probably is
conversation we had about like features
and things like that so I think we
basically need to cool that initiative
slightly but still it's not off the
table it's just kind of a little bit a
little bit tempered but probably more
like a key to
kind of thing in terms of other
collaborations textile of course is a
big one I don't know if any of you were
on the the idea vest calls yesterday but
acted X showed their industrial
motivation stuff which is super cool and
I think there's a significant overlap
between their kind of main message
saying like group forming kind of logic
and would be doing in pure ace so I
think that's what that I'm excited to
look into more I say I think I think
those are kind of the big big three yeah
cool thank you mom do we know what's
going on with that step your pad I'm not
sure okay let's look at probably not to
paint something like like that any more
questions to anyone
yeah I had a ipfs log versus a question
which I'm happy to take offline fit on
time so my understanding of what
happened when you guys we're talking is
you figured okay we have we have these
these these two solutions or things
we're trying to do one is we have this
event log and the other is we need this
sort of causal graph of what's reliant
on but and you can build either one on
top of the other one and so the decision
was my PFS logs already there let's just
tweak IP if I slog a little bit and then
we can build the dag layer on top that
that checks out
and even in the stuff that I'm I've been
working on with sort of synchronizing
DAGs
I'm currently basically using a log
because it was the easiest way to do it
but I I feel like at least theoretically
it makes more sense to have the dag
layer be underneath instead of on top
because the dag is more flexible than
the log and more performant so just I'm
wondering like how how sort of that
stuff went and what you guys think about
that alright so I think first of all as
far as I know and and by looking at
echoes and it uses a deck underneath so
especially if you look at the entries GS
file and take entry into is IO file
that's where the dog layer is on so
officially it's not using it's not using
a TLD but it is a data since that in
store objects and then you have like
heads not head sorry next pointer which
is a CID or a multi hash because
they have to multi hashes because they
are older projects so they are not using
IP OD but the pull request that I've
made will be using IP LD and also will
transform all the multi ashes within the
code to see IDs because the series is
the new spec of you know
content-addressable IDs so yeah it's
currently using tags and then you have
like a tie breaker that I think it's
currently in a pull request as well so
essentially they were simply less write
means a scenario but after the pull
request lines it will be customizable
which means that the issue will be kept
but the the last right scenario in case
of guarantee propellant changes will
ensure the full order of the below so my
feeling about by first of all in the
sense of battle originally the
discussion was was about having the head
start on on the see ality of a specify
and so on and now that I've looked into
the codes I have a feeling that ipfs law
is more than what we actually needs in
terms of the bare bones because they
have this log as a deck and also the tie
breaker but they also have a replication
strategy not not built in but at least
the strategy is there and we don't need
that in terms of the that discussed if I
use case that that we we know about so I
have mixed feelings about all of this
after knowing more about the code
perhaps we could we could discuss that
offline and then think about that later
yeah I'm not sure
what I understood the dekat to me that
we were saying it in about having the
the log built on top of a nag or vice
versa as well
well I'm not sure I caught it but I
think I think it's that's that's right
so do we have IPL D and then we have
multi writer log console.log it's not
it's not there in your law it's it's
like it's a branch a branch e a causal
branch log potentially branching
but we get like yeah the thing is
actually underneath that I think I saw
in there infestation so it's not really
on top so that's not to be a problem the
problem was what I was saying is that
they had much more than a simple dagger
like structure where you can resolve
into a flattened list of events they
have all the whole replication system
around around how multiple logs merge
together is actually there implemented
there and in some scenarios you don't
need that me AB we we have an overhead
because of that in terms of storage and
CPU love that that we wouldn't make need
in case of or see that forces but I'm
happy to discuss that that's best mainly
because we are discussing Phi we use the
CO 80222 point to the head select so we
kind of take care of that and and the
merge the mergers have to be explicit
right that merges yeah that's actually
and is actually offered by I profess log
not explicitly but you can always obtain
something that is what accesses merge so
it's not really a problem it's just that
you have to account for that explicit
merge node when you watch your
traversing along so that you can ignore
those nodes whenever your question in
case of first value have an explicit
much if you want
but yeah you're right the see oddity
already takes texture of the you know
adding entries not not interest but
heading heads so they solved that using
a different system that we currently
don't need to ask but we must have
because we don't have access to
underlying interests we must use the log
and the log instance is the one
responsible for for that and like the
heads and take care of the merging and
okay but but we can I didn't probably
have have more questions and that we can
take this off on an RC or or initio okay
yeah yeah no worries don't get pretty
helpful arty cool because we're
approaching approaching the well we
surpassed the end time of the meeting so
file coin cool I'm gonna get some swag
man for me next next anyone else coming
to Porto well but besides the people
that are already there
no that's something I wanted to ask so
far it seems like this event is is
somewhat closed it's really not clear if
it's just for lis peer-to-peer people or
what's going on there it's it's a little
bit to be thing I wasn't expecting to to
come the vid asked me if I wanted to
come since it's a gathering of people in
Portugal and I'm not too far away but
besides that it's not not really
fundamental to do to what at least what
we're doing I think but I'll take the
chance to to work a bit and then to join
to to join some conversation and some
with some some people okay otherwise or
NNC and see some some people again yeah
all right and the people in Porto like
like yourselves yeah cool cool cool
and I wanted to talk about something
else
I was not aware that the gym is
leading the charge in terms of well
there are all sorts of names it's I'm
not sure if it's community but is
involved in protocol is that correct I
just sat in on the meeting so it's a
sort of like spying on them but okay
yeah I might I depending on how the
protocol school thing works I might even
try to do it in Vancouver okay
okay cool the I'm mainly asking this
because we need to I think at least
these initial groups need to align and
and see how we can support each other
because I suspect that a lot of the work
like setting up the content for some
initial workshops and that's that sort
of stuff could and should probably be
shared like let's say we do a design
like ten workshops or something like
that maybe we can split it between the
several chapters and it's chapter
designs some of them and then shares
with the rest so we should probably
coordinate that I don't know who would
be coordinating that yeah like Michael
Rogers is in charge of the the community
thing in proto school and they put a lot
of work into it it's really quite
impressive it's a whole application that
they're writing that will power all this
and okay it's interesting it's gonna be
interesting to see how it comes together
with group when they launch it okay in
terms of the things that that that we're
going to be able to offer from the
dynamic data working group to the
community Jim is is the Dakota guide to
I mean so said there's the effort I
think we have to join join so both of
you have to talk about about about this
what about the community since Jim has
has had a lot of experience in creating
articles and blog posts and videos and
demos and workshops
there is its its present on on Doc er
2019 you know cures his name is is on on
the outbound the articles and videos
that we're going to produce on during
this this this quarter so yeah you you
guys talk to each other we have I'm also
interested in that net aspect of course
I'd like to never there there are some
ideas already of just like brainstorming
ideas for subjects for articles and and
workshops but yeah but that's after
that's somehow blah status all that yeah
I I think we'll do some of our own stuff
that stand alone in the but that will
also work with with what the the
community teams working with doing
because the they've done this all before
like they have experience like they know
they have a template that they know will
work and they're rolling that out that's
really exciting to piece are going about
with that nice and and Jimmy how you
have to to sync with Marco also because
is is developing that the communication
strategy for the pure pure base yeah /
new name and and so that that's that's
cross crossing special so you guys
should talk anything else all right so
we're six minutes past time thank you
for coming
happy new year everyone and so I'm going
to change the schedule and we'll see
each other next week and I'll be in
Porto all right bye-bye